In this project, Netflix movies and TV series will be grouped according to their features using unsupervised machine learning approaches. The dataset will include details on different Netflix titles, including title, genre, rating, year of release, and possibly other descriptive characteristics. In order to comprehend the dataset's structure and find any missing or inconsistent values, the project will start by examining it. To deal with missing data, data wrangling methods like imputation and the elimination of partial items will be used. Pre-processing techniques like one-hot encoding will be used to transform categorical data like genre and rating into numerical representations that machine learning algorithms can use. Tokenization, stemming, and TF-IDF vectorization are some of the pre-processing methods that will be used to extract relevant characteristics from text data, such as titles or descriptions. To make sure that every feature contributes equally to the clustering process, data manipulation will entail feature scaling or normalization. Despite being an unsupervised learning study, hypotheses regarding possible groups within the data will be developed by exploratory data analysis. For example, the research will look into whether release year connects with particular clusters or whether genres prefer to cluster together. The interpretation of the clustering results will be guided by these theories. To investigate possible connections between features and observed clusters, statistical procedures like chi-square tests will be employed. Clustering techniques like KNN will be tested during the research. To find trends and insights on the connections between various Netflix titles, the generated clusters will be examined and visualized. By examining possible ramifications for content suggestion or market analysis, the project will seek to offer a meaningful interpretation of the clusters found.
